Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear all, today, with mindful
awareness, I would like to share with you, dear fellow
practitioners, that as we get older,
our
legs often ache after meditation. Sometimes, many people are
afraid to meditate, aren't they?
So, let's start with meditation.
We'll begin by practicing. For
those who don't know how to cross their legs,
we'll practice crossing them in a half-lotus position. Once
we know how, we'll practice the half-lotus position. We
'll sit for a short time, starting with 5 minutes,
then increasing to 6 minutes, and so on,
gradually increasing according to our health.
But once
we can sit for 5 minutes, then
3 minutes, we'll practice
crossing our legs in the lotus position wherever we are comfortable.
That is, just cross your legs in the lotus position
wherever it's convenient, and then
lower them again, within our
tolerance. For example, while sitting and
talking.  For example, we can also practice the
half-lotus position, understand?
But why do we practice this? To
get used to it, because our bodies are
stiff, not like babies',
so it's easy. We have aching feet, aching
bones, everything is aching. So, every moment we
get in this half-lotus position is good.
So when we sit around,
we can practice this half-lotus position for a
minute or two, then we take it off.
Otherwise, if we don't practice,
it won't get used to it. We
practice gradually, and it will get used to it, it will become flexible. This half-lotus position is
extremely important for meditation practice,
because when
we get used to that position, our
minds become calmer, our posture is
more stable, and it allows us to
observe better.
And if, for example, our mind is playing, for
instance, we're sitting in this half-lotus position, and
our body is unbalanced, do you
see?
Our body is always unbalanced when we sit in this half-lotus position.
And when our body is unbalanced...
My four elements (body, mind, and spirit) aren't
very calm, so my observation is
n't very good compared to others.
Not compared to others, but compared to
myself. For example, if I sit cross-
legged like this, with one
knee higher than the other,
my observation is
n't very good. Sitting
like this, leaning to one side while
observing isn't very good either.
But if I sit in the lotus position, my body is
very balanced. You
see, it's very stable,
very stable. You see, when
I sit like this, my
whole body, my spine, everything is down and very
stable. So then, my observation is very good. When we sit in the lotus position,
we observe very well. It's better.
You see, sitting like this is more
comfortable, isn't it? So now, let's go home and
practice. Those who haven't mastered leg control yet,
let's practice lifting our legs up.
It doesn't hurt much in the calf. But don't
worry, whenever we practice, we just sit
down and lift our legs up.
About 1  At minute 21, I'm crawling down again. Is
this clear to the general public? Because in
this meditation practice, this lotus position
allows us to go deeper into
meditation. This is just how we
feel now, but
remember, as Buddhists in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
we still have a
lot to practice meditation. We also practice the Four Foundations of Mindfulness, so we'll be practicing
meditation a lot.
Now we're just beginners. So,
first, we Buddhists should practice. No matter how old we are, we should practice. No matter how far we go, we should
practice.
For example, if we sit for one or two minutes and get
tired, we can lower it. If we're
not tired, we can lower it again. When we're not
tired, we can raise it again.
Just keep practicing, it's okay. You'll get used to it.
When we sit in this position,
our minds will calm down very quickly. Later, when
we sit, we just need to put our
hands in this position, and we'll feel
very stable. Once we're
stable, we'll enter the object of focus very
quickly.  Do
you all understand
this point? Then your body won't
sway or tilt; it will just
sit in one position, your back will be
straight, your body will be stable, you won't
lean to one side or the other, and you wo
n't get tired. Do you all
understand? It only takes a while at first. When
we're not used to it, we
sit in the half-lotus position. Do you all understand? But
we practice the half-lotus position continuously. Whenever we
sit down, we don't sit with our legs apart, we don't sit with our legs apart,
we just sit in the half-lotus position and then sit in the half-lotus position until we get used to it. That way,
we'll get used to it. Anyone can sit like that without any
problems. Today, I will
share about practicing to make our
bodies more flexible, so we can practice the
lotus position better. If we know how to
make our bodies
flexible, it will be
harder to practice. For example, no matter
how busy we are, even if we're very busy, maybe with
work that keeps us busy for a
month or two, we can't
meditate, but once we do sit, we
can.  Sitting for hours is
normal, my friend. It only
hurts for the first one, two, or three days, but
we must make our bodies more
flexible. Although it's
stiff, it must be flexible. The mind will be focused. The practice of meditation
will guide you
on how to start. When we begin,
we must practice many
movements. These movements
must soften the muscles in
our bodies. We must soften the muscles, starting with the
eye muscles. When we want to
soften the muscles, my dear friends, first
we choose a point above.
We usually practice this way: the
highest point. We look up.
Then we
blink continuously, but our eyes don't leave that
point. Look up, my dear friends. Blink, my dear friends,
and you'll feel lighter.
This is a remedy for vestibular pain.
That is, the highest point,
not tilting your head back. Just look
upwards. The
highest point we see is the point we're looking at.
Okay, so now,
just keep looking at
that point, and keep blinking down
like this, blinking down, everyone blink for a
while, quickly, but only look at
that one point, the highest point you
can see, don't look sideways.
Blink for a while, then
blink up, blink down, blink for a while, and
you will feel your head will naturally clear up. Keep blinking until both ears twitch up, that's very good. Keep blinking until both ears twitch up. Do you feel more comfortable when blinking?
Raise your hand if you feel comfortable. Some of you
have, but we must
remember, look completely upwards, completely
upwards to the highest point. That means when
we look up, we
feel it pulling everything below up,
pulling up the bridge of our nose. That's the point where
we can see the mucus.
Just keep blinking like that.
Just keep blinking like that, don't look
up, that's not right.
Do you feel your face a little sore or
tired? That's muscle relaxation.
This muscle stretching makes
your head feel more open; it's called the
headache-relieving spot,
everyone, understood? The
first thing to do to stretch the muscles is to blink to relax
the muscles in your head. From
blinking, the muscles will stretch from the top of your head
up here. From
the top of your head, the muscles stretch up here, so your
head doesn't feel stuffy. Whenever
you feel your head is feeling stuffy,
do this. It
helps relieve the stuffiness, it makes you feel a little less stupid.
[Laughs] The
second thing to soften
these muscles is to twist your neck. Twist your neck,
that is, twist this three times, then
twist that three times. This is very good.
To put it deeply, twist your
neck in a full circle. This
makes your muscles
very soft.
Those are the two areas where we need to
soften the muscles. This is very good for your
health.  We're done with that, then
we'll loosen up to the wrist joint.
Everyone, please understand this part. We'll loosen up
to the wrist joint.
Rub your hands together
to warm them up,
then hook your fingers together and
push up and down to
loosen this part. Then we'll loosen
this part. After that,
we'll start rotating the
wrist. We'll loosen up to the wrist, then
rotate it forward, then rotate it backward, then
rotate it forward. Your body will be
soft, your body will feel relaxed,
you'll feel your body soften. We'll loosen up
to the wrist, and up
to the wrist joint,
still rotating the wrist and the entire joint.
Now that we're relaxed, we
can meditate for longer. Everyone,
understood? Later, when we sit,
we'll put our feet together, and it will be more relaxed. Rotate them backward,
remember, always
rotate them twice, not just once. Rotate inward and
then outward. That's how we've
loosened the joint, meaning from this point up to
here, it won't be contracted anymore. Everyone, understood?
Now we'll loosen up to
this joint...
We also rotate in the opposite direction about
10 times,
then we rotate forward 10 times,
10 times forward.
That's the circular rotation coefficient.
Now, do you see if your hands are
softer than before? Are they softer? Are they not tired? It's
because you're not used to it yet, so it's just tiring.
Now, it's our turn to loosen the
leg joints. We hold the leg like
this, just like we're releasing from meditation. We
do this movement, the same movement we practiced during the
day, and after releasing from meditation, we still
do it.
Now, if we want to practice so that
our legs can cross,
we have to make our bodies more
flexible every day. Then we rotate 10 times backward,
10 times forward, and then switch legs. We keep alternating
10 forward and 10 backward, and that's how
we get our feet. Now,
we stand up and
start rotating our knee joints. We rotate them
like we used to do in school.
It rotates like this, 10 times forward, 10 times backward...
We've been doing this for
10 rounds, 10 in reverse,
times, and I don't know
why it's so tiring. It's because we're stiff. People who are used to
rotating wo
n't get tired; it'll be soft. Do you understand?
Now, the next joint is wiggling the hips
10 times, 10 in reverse, then 10
forward. It's so much fun!
This is how it becomes soft, this is the part that's
developing, everyone. 8, 9, 10, that's the joint of
this guy. Now, the hip joint,
it takes up a bit more space,
meaning we have to sit
like this. Does it hurt? Do you see? If not, if it hurts too much, sit down. Put this on to gradually reduce the pain. If you can't sit yet, put something on your buttocks. Keep your legs in this position.
Gradually
lower your buttocks, and your hips will be affected. The
hip joint will be affected, and later you won't get
hip arthritis. Can you sit in old age? Raise your
hands high!
1, 2,
3. Just like
that. There, if you want to sit...  To meditate, you have to
open your hip joints so you can
sit for a long time, everyone. And to teach you how to
meditate, you have to open your legs wide so you can sit more comfortably. Does it hurt?
Gradually, your legs will open wider, everyone, do you
see?
Just keep doing that,
okay?
Just bear with it for a little while. It'll
make the pain go away when you meditate.
Everything requires effort, everyone. It's
not easy. Eating a meal from the
Buddha makes you sweat profusely.
[Applause]
Now, let's
raise one leg, then we start to
twist it. This is the hip joint,
meaning we twist it to one side to
loosen it because
we just bent it. Everyone, understood?
We twist the buttock, one
leg out, one leg still,
one leg still,
circling like this. It's easy for dancers,
but it's hard for us. Then we move
this leg, circling it back and forth.
We do this about 10 or 20 times,
right?
Why circle back and forth, forward and
backward?
We just use the toes.  Okay,
this leg only uses the toes, this one
leads the whole foot. This toe,
we just keep going back and forth like
that,
so below it has twisted into a
shape. Now
we just need to do this,
don't twist too much, just twist to your maximum
extent. Keep
both feet still,
and the final movement is to relax the muscles.
Remember, keep your heels raised, remember
this wide, but when you go down, release your
body like this,
release, release, not just release, meaning there's nothing
under your heels,
that's standing at the most normal height, release.
We do this about 20 times,
20 times, relax your whole body,
relax your whole body like this,
gently like this.
Then sit down and try crossing your legs again,
try crossing your legs again,
compare it to how you just did, see if
it's a little easier.
Yes, it's easier, crossing your legs now. Just like
that. Then when we finish
meditating, we do the same thing. Is that clear, everyone? When we
begin meditating, we
do all the movements.  After this, we
will sit in meditation. After
meditating, we will do the same, and
we will do the same whenever we are not meditating. Do you
understand? Then our bodies
will become softer, and
it will be easier for us to sit in meditation. Do you
feel healthier? Yes,
healthier.
These movements are just to help
us practice.
Today, I am
guiding you, the community, to
practice meditation
more quickly. Remember, in all
merits, we cultivate them,
but the merit of meditation is
very high
because sitting in meditation helps us eliminate defilements from the mind.
Do you see, dear fellow practitioners, when we
meditate according to the subject, does our mind increase? It
increases, that is, the
Higher Mind. The Higher Mind
leads everything, all phenomena, so merit
changes. Those who diligently meditate will see
their merit change quickly. Please understand
this point. Diligently meditating is because
we are not fixed beings. A king's mind leads to
kingship,
but a
thief's mind...  The scene becomes a thief, a
robber; a thief becomes a
thief of the mind; a prostitute becomes a prostitute.
So, all things are just
manifestations of the mind. The scene is a manifestation of the
mind. Therefore, the more our mind is elevated,
the more compassionate we become. The more we
love everyone, the kingly mind
appears. Everyone understands this: a king must care
for the whole country, right?
So, when the mind changes, the scene
changes. Therefore, some people
change their karma in just 30 minutes of
meditation, eliminating distracting
thoughts. For example, I intend to
sign a contract. Before signing, I
think, "This guy is a scoundrel, I know
that guy, he's a scoundrel, I know that
guy." Then, when I
sit in meditation for a while, my mind calms down,
and my unwholesome thoughts arise
from that.
I eliminate those unwholesome thoughts and turn them
towards goodness, depending on how I contemplate cause and effect, cause and effect, and
impermanence. Everyone
understands? Ideally, if we haven't meditated,
we won't be able to observe, and karma will
come to us. But if we do contemplate...
Establishing your own mindset
will change things, everyone remembers. That's why
the merits of meditation are so precious. It's that when the
mind changes, the circumstances change.
If Master Dat Quoc Su hadn't harbored
such arrogance before, he wouldn't have suffered such misfortunes, would
n't he? That's why
we remember that meditation is very important to us. So, for the
official Buddhists in the club,
we should gradually progress from
Vipassana meditation to Samadhi meditation.
Everyone should understand that we must practice gradually, step by step. The meditation is
correct; there's nothing difficult about it. We
practice sitting, and the meditation
object is already there, but we haven't mastered it yet. If
we feel that this time we have
n't practiced the meditation object well enough, we can practice it again next time.
No one is forcing us. The goal is to
gradually improve our minds, to broaden our minds,
and then wisdom will arise. Everyone
understands, right? Meditation is extremely
important, but in reality, some people in
meditation have delusion, meaning they
sit in meditation without understanding. Therefore,
we must...  We learn wisdom so that we
don't get distracted by meditation, so we must study
daily, listen to Dharma daily, and
have Right View. Then, when we sit in
meditation and have distracting thoughts, we use that Right View
to purify them. Do you all
see that? Purify
ignorance with Right View. Now, sit in
the lotus position for
5 minutes, then a bell rings. Let's
try 5 minutes. If anyone can't do it, we'll adjust
based on that. Then we'll just
sit in meditation for 15 minutes. After the first 5 minutes,
the mind will focus on the complete contemplation.
After the next 5 minutes, the mind will focus on the contemplation line and a
bell will ring. This lets us know that
we've managed to sit for 5 minutes. That's
good enough for the first 5 minutes. And for
those who can sit better,
we'll sit for 10 minutes, then 15 minutes. That's all.
The mind focusing on the complete contemplation will start from the moment
in the video when the master is guiding us in meditation.
We begin to lift our feet.
[Music] [
Music]
Trang
sits
quietly
[Music]
Thich
Dong
Thai
[Music]
wants to
stay in
this life
[Music]
There is no
birth and
death, no
need for
birth and
death
[music]
gnawing at dreams.
See
all dharmas
as they are. Mysterious nature
[music] [
music]
[music]
Om Buddha
Shakyamuni
[music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni Buddha Shakyamuni Namo Buddha [music]
Shakyamuni Buddha
[music]
Buddha,
we sit and observe
our bodies. How are
their sensations? Observing it means observing the
body, and as
for the mind, we see if we are
uncomfortable with the external environment.
If we are uncomfortable, we
turn inward to clear it.
We've been 5 minutes already. Anyone who
can't stand it, take your feet off.
[music]
It's been 10 minutes already.
Quickly, right?
Don't move your feet. If anyone is trying to
sit, don't move your feet. Because
when we have foot pain, it's because we
haven't focused on anything yet. So when
we have foot pain, we will
try to practice more.  When we focus our
attention elsewhere, the pain in our feet will disappear.
That means we're starting to release the meditation. And
this release of meditation requires us to focus our attention
elsewhere. Our hands start
stroking upwards. We're releasing the meditation, everyone, understood? That's it,
stroking all over, releasing the meditation. Anyone whose
feet hurt, look! Do you see how the movement relieves the
pain? Is that right? After stroking upwards,
we begin to follow all the
movements of releasing the meditation. Mindfulness meditation, and then the complete contemplation,
adds another movement. That is, during the
time we were just opening our eyes slightly, so
mindfulness meditation adds another
movement. That is, on both temples,
rotating back and forth on both temples. Then
we'll apply pressure to
our eyes so it doesn't hurt suddenly. Then
we start to cleanse, we
warm our eyes,
touching them to warm them.
Do you see how the pain in our feet lessens while
we're releasing the meditation?
So we've practiced for
a little while longer, haven't we? Let's take advantage of
this time to wipe our faces and rub our faces.
After that, after all the meditation release movements
we've learned, we're done.  Then, behind the
nape of the neck, we massage the back of the neck,
the nape of the
neck, but remember to rotate
it in a circular motion a little first. Below,
behind the nape of the neck, we have two
Remember to rotate that hollow a little bit before
stroking it. See, fellow practitioners,
when you see it, you'll feel less neck strain, right?
Rotate those two hollows back and forth,
then we'll stroke them.
And now, let's repeat the same
movement as before. Rotate like this. If you
sit for a long time, we'll add a few
more movements like this. But after your mind is
completely exhausted, after finishing all
these movements, then focus your mind on the complete contemplation. After finishing all these movements,
let it relieve the fatigue, then
start stroking. When you start stroking,
it feels very refreshing. After that,
we start stroking with our
hands. Then we
place each foot
down one by one. We place each foot
down. That's when
it hurts after sitting for a long time, but now it doesn't hurt.
See? We press down like
this to make it comfortable.
Now we...  Let's bring one leg
forward and
rub it, moving it further away from
this leg, like this, then
we'll rotate it. We'll
rub the ankle, then we'll rotate
it. See, dear fellow practitioners, do you feel the
warmth from rubbing the ankle? Does it
feel soothing? Does it feel
soothing?
Let's go to this side and
rub this side, starting from the toes
and gradually moving up to the ankle. So
wherever it hurts, we just rub back and forth
to soften it. Let's spread our
legs out again and rub the
ankle. But after sitting and
meditating, we have a few
other movements than before. Earlier,
we did the normal warm-up.
Now, after this movement,
we move on to the knee-tapping movement. Tap,
tap hard! First, we rub both legs back and forth,
then we
start tapping the knees.
Tap, but when you tap, you jerk your leg
like this.
Try to be patient while tapping. Now my legs feel
stronger, right, dear fellow practitioners?
There's nothing up there. It's all just practicing together, so there's nothing
to be shy about.
If your leg is stiff, patting it will
hurt. Everyone sees that if your leg is stiff,
patting it will hurt. This way, it's
softer. Your knees are easier, aren't
they? Okay,
then we'll do
this movement. We'll rotate our bodies,
adding that movement to treat the
intercostal nerves. Then we'll start by
standing up to the knee and hip joints. Now
we'll sit normally,
crossing our legs normally.
This hand is underneath, like this,
this hand is up. Extend it fully, carefully, rotate it
a full circle, tilting it back as far as possible. Then
like this,
then rotate again,
try to do seven rotations: three, four,
five,
six,
seven. Now, this hand goes down to
this side, this side, turn back again.
Remember to get it all wet!
6.
Are you tired?
[Claps]
Then we stand up again and
do the knee massage movement. We just
rotated, so now we
only need to rotate seven times, my dear friends.
Remember to stand up and spread your legs.  Bring your
knees together to rotate and spread your legs.
If we stand like this, it's
difficult to rotate. This way, you can
rotate and spread your knees
more. Do you see?
Now, let's move on.
This time it will be less painful than
before. Sit down and spread your
legs.
One, three, four, five, six,
and then 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
17, 18. Remember your back too. 19,
here it is. 20, remember that. Here it is.
How can you get your groin as free as possible? Do
you understand? Is it
more comfortable?
That's it. Now
let's rotate to rotate the hips.
Let's find one leg and lift it up like this, leave the other leg still,
just keep rotating. Raise your hands
and do the reverse. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, then back
to the one I just did. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
Tomorrow, when the husband comes home from his meditation, he'll see his wife wriggling
all over the place.
[Laughter]
1 2 3 4 5 We spread this leg out
6 7 8 9 10 Now it's time to wiggle our butts
1 2 Easiest 4 5 6 7 8 9 The
opposite
one two three four five six seven eight nine ten
[music]
four Remember to put your hands behind you 5
6 7 8
9 10 Just 10
Now let's start to
relax freely, really relax, no tendons
behind your heels touching the ground,
relax like this, is
n't it soft?
Now everyone sit down and
try crossing your legs, see if it's different
from last time,
see if it's softer. That means it's easier to
cross your legs than at the beginning, for those who haven't
practiced yet, right? That's how it will be,
more flexible than not
practicing. Just like that.
This time, let's try to
practice meditation. After meditating, do some
exercise, that's good for your health, everyone.
Dear all,
today, the mind-reflecting and the complete contemplation guide you,
dear fellow practitioners, as follows...  So, practicing meditation
also makes us healthier,
right? Sitting in balanced meditation also
makes us healthier because
our breathing becomes more regulated. When we
sit in the lotus position,
our bodies become more balanced,
so we become healthier. So, let's
try to meditate for just
5 or 10 minutes each day. Warm-up
takes about 10 minutes, meditation 10 minutes, relaxation
10 minutes.
We can increase that time.
Here, I'm sharing this with you, dear fellow practitioners.
People often say, "This guy is
moving, he's coughing, that's preventing me from
meditating." That's a wrong way of thinking. The general
public understands this point. Even amidst
bombs and bullets, one can still meditate normally.
Meditation is about being free from worries. The
mind is calm and clear. It's about not
giving rise to thoughts. If you don't have any distracting thoughts,
you eliminate them. For example, after meditating, something might appear. For instance, you
're meditating like this,
but then... Oh my god,
something is spinning!  The eyes are drawn to the world, so the
path is not something the masses understand. Sitting in
meditation is about sitting in the meditative state;
it's about how we keep our minds
from being distracted. That's the important thing.
Later, when we enter meditative absorption,
we must first stabilize our minds in that state
before we can achieve the meditative fruition. So
when we sit in meditation, even if pigs
squeal or children cry—that's not
our concern. If we get
impatient and see something happening, we should be
mindful of others. We must know that there are
people watching below. Meditation is for the purpose of
sitting in meditation; it's to eliminate distracting thoughts. Do the masses
understand this? Only then can we achieve mental stability.
If there's talking or coughing, if
our minds arise, it's unwholesome. Oh, coughing! Then
we know what those distracting
thoughts are, we eliminate them, and
we return to our state of
sitting in meditation. Do the masses understand? So, even
if birds chirp, monkeys howl, monks
in the forest, or even
snakes crawl, that's the snakes' business, not ours. There's
one good thing about
this:
when we interact...  When we focus our minds on
sentient beings, they interact with
us mentally. When we don't interact
with sentient beings mentally, they can't
interact with us either. That's a
key to being able to meditate.
For example, let's say we're meditating like this, and a
snake is crawling like
that. But if our mind is only thinking, "Oh my god,
it's going to bite!", we might be surprised by
that experience, making the
snake crawl towards us. But we only
know that the snake is crawling, so it does its thing,
it doesn't change its state. If
we change its state, it will
change its state. So we
have to practice from here before rushing to leave it and
go into the forest. That is, ignore it. Do
you understand this point? All the scenes are for
us to practice so that our mind becomes
calm, not clinging, not being disturbed by
fears.
If we have wandering thoughts, it's different. When we start thinking, it's different, "Oh, I'm
so scared!" That's why
practitioners are more calm and
less afraid. Do you understand this point?
People's thinking becomes deeper and
more accurate
because of the power of meditation, so
practicing meditation is incredibly valuable, so
valuable that it's impossible to list all the benefits. And
what are the benefits for us when we go out and see
any situation? We don't get
agitated.
Now, if we don't practice meditation, and we see something happening over
there, we can't go and
see, we don't even say
a few words. Isn't that agitated? Meditation
prevents us from that state.
Today we just heard a Dharma talk
about the suffering of worrying about other
people's affairs, not the Bodhi Mind. Worrying about other people's
affairs,
we get all worked up. If a
couple argues, we
quickly run to the neighbor's house to
tell them, "
I saw them arguing last night." Isn't that
dangerous and distressing? Meditation prevents us from getting agitated. It
eliminates all those things. Isn't that great? We do
n't
get agitated, we don't get agitated.
Therefore, meditation is extremely noble;
people can think very
accurately because they have a focused mind.
For example, with that neighbor, let's say
he and his wife are arguing. At
first, I just wanted to go
to their house and tell them,
but now, through meditation, I do
n't go. Because I don't go, I can
listen to their story more deeply. Isn't that
deeper? Then I know right from wrong, I
know right from wrong, I
don't go and tell because if my heart
doesn't get heated, how can I tell? So, it's
all gone. Sitting in meditation eliminates restlessness and anxiety.
Those restless, uneasy states of mind disappear. You
see, the karma of gossip and slander is
restlessness and anxiety. When something
happens, people get
heated, they get restless, they feel the need to be confident, to
say something here and there, or if there
's a problem between two people, they feel anxious and
uncomfortable, they have to go and say something, or they
have to run in and participate in meditation. That's it, that
state of mind and temperament
disappears. It's all eliminated.
So, is it beneficial? It's very
beneficial,
very peaceful. That's why meditation is
necessary; you have to practice it. You have to practice meditation until you get
used to it. Gradually, you
'll become more receptive to gossip and slander. Those who meditate will experience a significant
reduction in their karmic burdens. People can
eliminate them quickly because they
love the tranquility.
People who meditate always think deeply and sharply,
and it's incredibly beneficial
for business people and maintaining
family happiness. Whether male or
female,
those who practice meditation handle family matters with wisdom,
not emotions. Emotions lead to
anger, frustration, and other negative feelings.
But with the Dharma
and meditation, it's like a
bird with two wings. The
Dharma and meditation allow you to
fly everywhere, using Right View and meditation to
clear away afflictions. If
you meditate without studying or
listening to the Dharma, it's just contemplation,
sometimes very frustrating because you
lack Right View and can't resolve
problems.  Then it becomes increasingly
frustrating, reaching a peak where
it becomes extremely resentful.
Those who meditate but practice meditation without Right View eventually
accumulate it with delusive thoughts, and they can only
throw it away, unable to clear it. It
accumulates until the final moment of frustration, and then it breaks
down. It's very regrettable, but when we
practice meditation with Right View, it flows gently, it truly
enters, it's not suppressed, it's not
inhibited. Therefore, enlightenment, enlightenment, liberation, liberation,
enlightenment,
liberation. Right View brings us
enlightenment. Meditation, when we begin to
clear it, will help us achieve enlightenment and
liberation very well. Do
you see the great benefits of meditation?
Try to meditate. I ask
you all to dedicate this merit to all
disciples and
sentient beings so that they may all
attain Buddhahood.
[Music]